Update APM .NET runtime policy (#13629)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core.md

---

The .NET Tracer supports all .NET-based languages (for example, C#, F#, Visual Basic). It is open source. For more information, see the [.NET Tracer repository][1].

## Supported .NET Core runtimes

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on the following .NET Core versions. It also supports [.NET Framework][2].

| Version              | Microsoft End of Life | Support level        | Package version      |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| .NET 6               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 2.0.0)    |
| .NET 5               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 2.0.0)    |
| .NET Core 3.1        | 12/03/2022            | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest               |
| .NET Core 2.1        | 08/21/2021            | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest               |
| .NET Core 3.0        | 03/03/2020            | [EOL](#support-eol)  | Not recommeded       |
| .NET Core 2.2        | 12/23/2019            | [EOL](#support-eol)  | Not recommeded       |
| .NET Core 2.0        | 10/01/2018            | [EOL](#support-eol)  | Not recommeded       |

>  Additional information can be found within [Microsoft's .NET Core Lifecycle Policy][3], [End of life APM .NET Core versions](#end-of-life-net-core-versions) and in our [Runtime support policy for .NET Core APM][13].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Additional information can be found within [Microsoft's .NET Core Lifecycle Policy][3], [End of life APM .NET Core versions](#end-of-life-net-core-versions) and in [Runtime support policy for .NET Core APM][13].
```

- The .NET Tracer library for Datadog is open source. For more information, see the [.NET Tracer repository][1].

> ## Runtime support policy for .NET Core APM

Reviewer 2: As a customer, I would prefer that the first thing I see is the list of supported .NET Core runtimes and platforms/architectures. Since you link to this table from other places in the doc, can this section be placed last or closer to the bottom of the page?

As this relates to downgrading runtime support, it implies:

  - **Major version updates** (for example `1.0.0` to `2.0.0`) may change support for any runtime from [Beta](#support-beta)/[GA](#support-ga) to [Maintenance](#support-maintenance)/[Legacy](#support-legacy)/[EOL](#support-eol).
  - **Minor version updates** (for example `1.0.0` to `1.1.0`) won't lower our level of support for one runtime but may add support for one.
  - **Patch version updates** (for example `1.0.0` to `1.0.1`) will not change support for any runtime.

## Supported .NET Core runtimes

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on the following .NET Core versions. It also supports [.NET Framework][4].

| Version              | Microsoft End of Life | Support level        | Package version      |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| .NET 6               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 2.0.0)    |
| .NET 5               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 2.0.0)    |
| .NET Core 3.1        | 12/03/2022            | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest               |

> | .NET Core 2.1        | 08/21/2021            | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest               |

Reviewer 2: Now that we have a clear policy on what EOL, what do you think of creating a new table or adding to this table that clearly states that .NET Core 2.0 / 2.2 / 3.0 are End-Of-Life?

- The .NET Tracer library for Datadog is open source. For more information, see the [.NET Tracer repository][1].

## Runtime support policy for .NET Core APM

Datadog APM for .NET Core is built upon dependencies defined in specific versions of the host operating system, .NET Core runtime, certain .NET Core libraries, and the Datadog Agent/API. When these versions are no longer supported by their maintainers, Datadog APM for .NET Core limits its support for these as well.

### Levels of support

> delner marked this conversation as resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed in 357cc23292e321b0326fa74873bfb42752d2e27d

| <span id="support-unsupported">Unsupported</span>      |  No implementation. [Contact our customer support team for special requests.][2]                                                             |
| <span id="support-beta">Beta</span>                    |  Initial implementation. May not yet contain all features. Support for new features, bug & security fixes provided on a best-effort basis.                                    |
| <span id="support-ga">General Availability (GA)</span> |  Full implementation of all features. Full support for new features, bug & security fixes.                                                                                    |
| <span id="support-maintenance">Maintenance</span>      |  Full implementation of existing features. Does not receive new features. Support for bug & security fixes only.                                                              |
| <span id="support-legacy">Legacy</span>                |  Legacy implementation. May have limited function, but no maintenance provided. [Contact our customer support team for special requests.][2] |

> | <span id="support-eol">End-of-life (EOL)</span>        |  No support.                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 4: I don't think in .NET we need all of these. For example, 1.x is currently in Maintenance and then will go into either Legacy or EOL, but we don't need both of those.

Reviewer 4: (the RFC allows for this flexibility, not all language tracers need all levels)

Author: Yes I removed legacy at first, and then I thought ok if we need it one day I won't need to add it. 
But Ok, i'll remove it

### Package versioning

Datadog APM for .NET Core practices [semantic versioning][3].
As this relates to downgrading runtime support, it implies:

  - **Major version updates** (e.g. `1.0.0` to `2.0.0`) may change support for any runtime from [Beta](#support-beta)/[GA](#support-ga) to [Maintenance](#support-maintenance)/[Legacy](#support-legacy)/[EOL](#support-eol).

>   - **Minor version updates** (e.g. `1.0.0` to `1.1.0`) will not change support for any runtime.

Reviewer 3: We could potentially _add_ support for a runtime here

Reviewer 4: All this work (see the original RFC) was specifically about downgrading or dropping support. The line above says

> As this relates to downgrading runtime support...

I wonder if we need to make this more clear, or just explicitly mention when support can be added/upgraded. 🤔

  - **Patch version updates** (e.g. `1.0.0` to `1.0.1`) will not change support for any runtime.

## Supported .NET Core runtimes

The .NET Tracer supports automatic instrumentation on the following .NET Core versions. It also supports [.NET Framework][4].

| Version              | Microsoft End of Life | Support level        | Package version      |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- |
| .NET 6               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 2.0.0)    |

> | .NET 5               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 1.27.0)   |

Reviewer 4: If we're going to claim GA support for .NET 5, I think we should list package version as `>= 2.0.0`, since 1.x is in Maintenance support level, not GA. 
```suggestion
| .NET 5               |                       | [GA](#support-ga)    | latest (>= 2.0.0)   |
```

Author: I would have said, let's change it when we switch to eol, but as it's in 20 days, ok :)

Reviewer 4: Well, the "GA" level support is only in 2.x. The support in 1.27 is "Maintenance", so I think this is more correct. Plus we want to encourage users to use 2.x as much as possible :) 

Thanks!

| JIT Compiler bug on Linux/x64                 | 2.0.x,</br>2.1.0-2.1.11,</br>2.2.0-2.2.5  | Upgrade .NET Core to the latest patch version, or follow steps in the linked issue | [DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/issues/302][6] |
| Resource lookup bug with a non `en-US` locale | 2.0.0                                     | Upgrade .NET Core to 2.0.3 or above                                    | [dotnet/runtime/issues/23938][7]        |

## Supported Datadog Agent versions

| **Datadog Agent version**   | **Package version** |
|-----------------------------|---------------------|

> | [7.x][8]                   | Latest              |

Reviewer: Table columns might be misaligned, please check.

| [6.x][8]                   | Latest              |
| [5.x][9]                   | Latest              |

## Runtime support policy for .NET Core APM

> Datadog APM for .NET Core is built upon dependencies defined in specific versions of the host operating system, .NET Core runtime, certain .NET Core libraries, and the Datadog Agent/API. When these versions are no longer supported by their maintainers, Datadog APM for .NET Core limits its support for these as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog APM for .NET Core is built upon dependencies defined in specific versions of the host operating system, .NET Core runtime, certain .NET Core libraries, and the Datadog Agent/API. When a version of ??? is no longer supported by its dependencies, Datadog APM for .NET Core limits its support for ??? as well.
```
Second sentence needs rewording to be more precise. When I read the original version, I couldn't tell what the words "these versions" or "these" refer to.

### Levels of support

| **Level**                                              | **Support provided**                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | <span id="support-unsupported">Unsupported</span>      |  No implementation. [Contact our customer support team for special requests.][10]                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <span id="support-unsupported">Unsupported</span>      |  No implementation. [Contact customer support for special requests.][10]                                                             |
```

| <span id="support-beta">Beta</span>                    |  Initial implementation. May not yet contain all features. Support for new features, bug & security fixes provided on a best-effort basis.                                    |
| <span id="support-ga">General Availability (GA)</span> |  Full implementation of all features. Full support for new features, bug & security fixes.                                                                                    |
| <span id="support-maintenance">Maintenance</span>      |  Full implementation of existing features. Does not receive new features. Support for bug & security fixes only.                                                              |
| <span id="support-eol">End-of-life (EOL)</span>        |  No support.                                                                                                                                                                  |

### Package versioning

Datadog APM for .NET Core practices [semantic versioning][11].

> As this relates to changing runtime support, it implies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version updates imply the following changes to runtime support:
```
